README.md, before:

![Spectec Status](https://github.com/WebAssembly/spec/actions/workflows/ci-spectec.yml/badge.svg)
![Interpreter Status](https://github.com/WebAssembly/spec/actions/workflows/ci-interpreter.yml/badge.svg)
![Spec doc Status](https://github.com/WebAssembly/spec/actions/workflows/ci-spec.yml/badge.svg)

[![CI for specs](https://github.com/WebAssembly/spec/actions/workflows/ci-spec.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/WebAssembly/spec/actions/workflows/ci-spec.yml)
[![CI for interpreter & tests](https://github.com/WebAssembly/spec/actions/workflows/ci-interpreter.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/WebAssembly/spec/actions/workflows/ci-interpreter.yml)


# spec

This repository holds the sources for the WebAssembly specification,
a reference implementation, and the official test suite.

A formatted version of the spec is available here:
[webassembly.github.io/spec](https://webassembly.github.io/spec/),

Participation is welcome. Discussions about new features, significant semantic
changes, or any specification change likely to generate substantial discussion
should take place in
[the WebAssembly design repository](https://github.com/WebAssembly/design)
first, so that this spec repository can remain focused. And please follow the
[guidelines for contributing](Contributing.md).

# citing

For citing WebAssembly in LaTeX, use [this bibtex file](wasm-specs.bib).

Commit message:

Batch commit of 2023 version of extended name section
Probably does not compile yet due to rebase issues and the migration to
spectec.

README.md, after:

![Spectec Status](https://github.com/WebAssembly/spec/actions/workflows/ci-spectec.yml/badge.svg)
![Interpreter Status](https://github.com/WebAssembly/spec/actions/workflows/ci-interpreter.yml/badge.svg)
![Spec doc Status](https://github.com/WebAssembly/spec/actions/workflows/ci-spec.yml/badge.svg)

[![CI for specs](https://github.com/WebAssembly/spec/actions/workflows/ci-spec.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/WebAssembly/spec/actions/workflows/ci-spec.yml)
[![CI for interpreter & tests](https://github.com/WebAssembly/spec/actions/workflows/ci-interpreter.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/WebAssembly/spec/actions/workflows/ci-interpreter.yml)


# Extended Name Section Proposal for WebAssembly

This repository is a clone of [github.com/WebAssembly/spec/](https://github.com/WebAssembly/spec/).
It is meant for discussion, prototype specification and implementation of a proposal to extend the
name section with names for labels, types, tables, memories, and globals.

See the [overview](proposals/extended-name-section/Overview.md) for a summary of the proposal,
and a rendering to HTML of the updated spec [here](https://www.scheidecker.net/2019-07-08-extended-name-section-spec/).

You can find some past discussion in the design repo:
* https://github.com/WebAssembly/design/pull/1064
* https://github.com/WebAssembly/design/issues/750

Original README from upstream repository follows...

# spec

This repository holds the sources for the WebAssembly specification,
a reference implementation, and the official test suite.

A formatted version of the spec is available here:
[webassembly.github.io/spec](https://webassembly.github.io/spec/),

Participation is welcome. Discussions about new features, significant semantic
changes, or any specification change likely to generate substantial discussion
should take place in
[the WebAssembly design repository](https://github.com/WebAssembly/design)
first, so that this spec repository can remain focused. And please follow the
[guidelines for contributing](Contributing.md).

# citing

For citing WebAssembly in LaTeX, use [this bibtex file](wasm-specs.bib).
